[TT-16589] Portal 1.17.0 RNs.mdx (#1447)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/portal.mdx

---

## 1.17 Release Notes

### 1.17.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx 2026

#### Release Highlights

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developer Portal 1.17 brings enhanced experience and security when using mTLS secured API Products.

The new Auth Token-Certificate binding option enhances security by preventing the use of mismatched tokens and certificates. When client access to APIs in a Product are secured using Auth Token with mTLS, you can now link specific client certificates to each issued token. Tyk Gateway will only authorise access requests with matched tokens and certificates, mitigating against the risk of token theft.

We've added a new Certificate Management function in the Admin Portal, where you can upload client certificates, retrieve existing certificates from the [Tyk Certificate Store](/api-management/certificates#tyk-certificate-store), and associate certificates with Organisations.

When an Auth Token ([API Key](/portal/overview/concepts#access-credentials)) is issued to a Developer App, the appropriate certificate or certificates will automatically be linked to that token to ensure that the API Consumer can access the Product's APIs using a combination of the token with their client certificate.
```

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.17.0) below.

#### Breaking Changes

There are no breaking changes in this release.

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

If you are on version 1.16.0 or an older version, we recommend upgrading to this release ASAP.

To upgrade the Portal's theme, please follow the [upgrade instructions](/portal/customization/themes#upgrading-themes).

#### Download
- [Docker image v1.17.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/portal/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v1.17.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/portal:v1.17.0
    ```

- [The default theme package](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/portal-default-theme/releases/tag/1.17.0)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.17.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Enhanced mTLS Security with Auth Token-Certificate Binding'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Enhanced Security and Certificate Management with mTLS Secured Products'>
```

> The Developer Portal now supports Auth Token-Certificate binding to enhance mTLS security, preventing vulnerabilities from mismatched tokens and certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When client access to APIs in a Product is secured using Auth Token with mTLS, you can now link specific client certificates to each issued token. Tyk Gateway will only authorise access requests with matched tokens and certificates, mitigating against the risk of token theft.
```

> To support this, administrators now have a dedicated certificate management interface where they can upload new certificates, synchronize them from Tyk Dashboard providers, and associate them with specific organizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support this, the Admin Portal now has a dedicated certificate management interface to upload new certificates, synchronize them from Tyk Dashboard providers, and associate them with specific Organisations.
```

It is really important to use the capitalised word Organisation (with 's') and not organization (with 'z') when referring to the Portal's Org concept.

> Additionally, administrators can now enable certificate-token binding on a per-product basis for APIs using mTLS. When enabled, the system automatically binds the appropriate certificate to an access token upon approval, ensuring that only the correct token-certificate pair can be used to gain API access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Owners can now enable certificate-token binding on a per-Product basis for APIs using mTLS. When enabled, the system automatically binds the appropriate certificate to an access token upon approval, ensuring that only the correct token-certificate pair can be used to gain API access.

For Managed mTLS Products, the certificates associated with the API Consumer's Organisation will be bound to their token. For Self-Serve mTLS Products, the certificate provided by the API Consumer will be bound to the token.
```

</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Fixed
<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Custom Credential Rotation and Revocation'>

> The Developer Portal now properly supports rotation and revocation operations for Tyk Managed Custom Credentials. Custom credentials now support the same lifecycle management as standard Tyk tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Developer Portal now properly supports rotation and revocation operations for [Tyk Managed Custom Credentials](/tyk-developer-portal/import-custom-credentials). Custom credentials now support the same lifecycle management as standard Tyk tokens.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='API Selection Display and Filter Persistence in API Products'>

> Fixed two issues affecting API selection when editing API Products: First, when multiple APIs shared the same name, the Portal would incorrectly display which API was selected, potentially causing data corruption if users saved without noticing the error. Second, applying search or category filters would cause all pending selections to be lost, forcing users to restart their selection process. Both issues have been resolved, ensuring accurate API selection display and persistent selection state during filtering operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed two issues affecting API selection when editing API Products:

First, when multiple APIs shared the same name, the Portal would incorrectly display which API was selected, potentially causing data corruption if users saved without noticing the error.

Second, applying search or category filters would cause all pending selections to be lost, forcing users to restart their selection process. Both issues have been resolved, ensuring accurate API selection display and persistent selection state during filtering operations.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='mTLS Certificate Re-attachment Option Missing After Detachment'>

> Fixed an issue where the "Attach Certificate" option disappeared after detaching a certificate from mTLS credentials. Developers can now properly re-attach certificates to their applications as intended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue where the "Attach Certificate" option could disappear after detaching a certificate from the Developer App, leaving the API Consumer unable to register their client certificate for access to the API Product. Developers can now properly re-attach certificates to their apps.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='mTLS Certificate Attachment Visibility in App Details'>

> Extended the mTLS certificate management controls introduced in Portal 1.16.0 to the App Details page. The "Attach Mutual TLS Certificate" section now correctly appears only for credentials associated with self-serve mTLS products, maintaining consistency with the checkout flow behavior. For managed mTLS products, this section is appropriately hidden since certificate management is handled by administrators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue where the option to "Attach Mutual TLS Certificate" section was incorrectly displayed on the App Details page for Managed mTLS Products. This is now only be offered for Self-Serve mTLS Products, allowing the API Consumer to register their client certificate. For Managed mTLS Products, the permitted client certificates are registered by the API Owner in the Admin Portal.
```

---

## 1.17 Release Notes

### 1.17.0 Release Notes

> #### Release Date xx 2026

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Release Date 13 March 2026
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='API Selection Display and Filter Persistence in API Products'>
Fixed two issues affecting API selection when editing API Products:

First, when multiple APIs shared the same name, the Portal would incorrectly display which API was selected, potentially causing data corruption if users saved without noticing the error.

Second, applying search or category filters would cause all pending selections to be lost, forcing users to restart their selection process. Both issues have been resolved, ensuring accurate API selection display and persistent selection state during filtering operations.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='mTLS Certificate Re-attachment Option Missing After Detachment'>
Fixed an issue where the "Attach Certificate" option could disappear after detaching a certificate from the Developer App, leaving the API Consumer unable to register their client certificate for access to the API Product. Developers can now properly re-attach certificates to their apps.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='mTLS Certificate Attachment Visibility in App Details'>

> Fixed an issue where the option to "Attach Mutual TLS Certificate" section was incorrectly displayed on the App Details page for Managed mTLS Products. This is now only be offered for Self-Serve mTLS Products, allowing the API Consumer to register their client certificate. For Managed mTLS Products, the permitted client certificates are registered by the API Owner in the Admin Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue where the option to "Attach Mutual TLS Certificate" section was incorrectly displayed on the App Details page for Managed mTLS Products. This is now only displayed for Self-Serve mTLS Products, allowing the API Consumer to register their client certificate. For Managed mTLS Products, the permitted client certificates are registered by the API Owner in the Admin Portal.
```
